Various updates to pages (#3152)
alphagov/govuk-developer-docs: source/manual/2nd-line.html.md

type: learn
---

2nd line has three main responsibilities:

- Monitoring the state of the GOV.UK infrastructure
- Investigating and responding to technical bug reports
- Providing first line support to queries from data.gov.uk users
- Taking on urgent work or work that doesn't necessarily belong in any team

If you're new to 2nd line, read about our [working patterns, ceremonies and policies](/manual/welcome-to-2nd-line.html).

## Monitoring

> We have a [2nd line dashboard][] showing a high level overview of the state of  the GOV.UK environments. You can also [install our Chrome extension][] if you want  a permanently visible overview. You will need to be on the [VPN](/manual/vpn.html) if accessing from home.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have a [2nd line dashboard][] showing a high level overview of the state of the GOV.UK environments. You can also [install our Chrome extension][] if you want a permanently visible overview. You will need to be on the [VPN](/manual/vpn.html) if accessing from home.
```

### Icinga

We use Icinga to monitor our platform and alert us when things go wrong. Many alerts have corresponding  documentation in these developer docs, detailing how to respond.

> Record critical alerts that aren't easily solved to the [GOV.UK 2nd line Trello board][] to help inform Platform Health and the GOV.UK SREe. 2nd line should investigate these alerts when there is downtime; you do not necessarily have to fix them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should record critical alerts that aren't easily solved to the [GOV.UK 2nd line Trello board][] to help inform Platform Health and the GOV.UK SREs. 2nd line should investigate these alerts when there is downtime; you do not necessarily have to fix them.
```

[Read more about Icinga](/manual/icinga.html).

### PagerDuty

> Some alerts are urgent enough to warrant immediate attention, such as parts of the site becoming  unavailable or large quantities of error pages being served. We use [PagerDuty][] to notify the primary and secondary engineers on 2nd line during office hours (9:30am to 5:30pm), and on-call engineers outside of office hours.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some alerts are urgent enough to warrant immediate attention, such as parts of the site becoming unavailable or large quantities of error pages being served. We use [PagerDuty][] to notify the primary and secondary engineers on 2nd line during office hours (9:30am to 5:30pm), and on-call engineers outside of office hours.
```

Follow these Slack channels while working on 2nd line:

- `#govuk-2ndline` - the main channel for people on technical 2nd line
- `#govuk-deploy` - every time a Staging/Production deploy is done, this is automatically posted to - people also manually post when putting branches on Integration for testing
- `#govuk-developers` - this is a general channel for developers and can be a good place to ask questions if you are struggling

> - `#govuk-replatforming` - this is the channel for the Replatforming team, where the SREs are currently working (to Slack the RE interruptible person about urgent GOV.UK infrastructure issues please first use #govuk-2ndline)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `#govuk-replatforming` - this is the channel for the Replatforming team, where the SREs are currently working. However, you should use #govuk-2ndline to contact the RE interruptible person about urgent GOV.UK infrastructure issues.
```
